Was Roto designed to be an
iPhone game from the get go?
The idea for Roto was with
me for a very long time,
but I never found the
right media to release it.
So only when the iPhone
came around, I thought,
that's perfect for the iPhone.
And then I decided to design the
details and develop the game.
Because I think it needs
the haptical touch of
turning these wheels.
And you don't want
to do that on a PC,
but you want to do
that on the iPhone.
And I think it's the
ideal outlet for it,
and that's why it's
on the iPhone now.
I mean, Roto is
not a board game.
At least I wouldn't
implement it like this.
It needs an electronic platform.
And it is a very light
and addictive game
and therefore it needs
a light platform.
The iPhone is ideal, yes.
Do you play your own games?
Well, of course I play
my own games, but,
probably different to
other people because
when we develop games it
needs a lot of play tests.
Once the game is being
published then for me
it's kind of an old game because
I've developed it
a few years ago.
So usually, when the game
comes out and is available
for other players
who then play it,
I will be on to the next
games for the future.
I'm playing everyday,
but I'm mostly playing,
of course, the new designs,
and the games I'm finetuning
and bringing to release.
What do you look for
in a game?
If I play a social game
with other people,
then I would expect that
the game is really a platform,
so that I can have a very
stimulating and exciting time
with the other players.
That means, I want an
easy access to the game,
the game maybe
not too long,
and the game being simple
enough so that I can
actually play a good
part in the game
and not have to
administer the game.
If I look at electronic
games, particularly
solitaire playing games,
like our Roto,
then of course I look
much more for
a very exciting and
challenging game play.
To do better every
time and to
have just something
that stimulates me.
Manipulating and going on and
trying to do better every time.
What are the things that make
a game like Roto addictive?
Yeah, I think in Roto, we have
a very simple game play.
But nevertheless, it is
something that you can
play on many levels
of experience.
So you can play quite simple
and straight forward.
Or, when you play it
more often, you will see
how you play it better and
what you actually can do
to get many more points.
Roto is a game which,
literally, only takes a
minute every level.
So it's very, very easy to play
in all situations on the iPhone.
You advance from one
level to the next level.
But it's not so that the
initial levels are too easy.
Because you carry forward your goodies,
your points and your bonuses.
And you know as life,
or play, gets harder later,
you have to acquire enough
bonus points and good points,
which you then can
use in the later levels.
And again, that's something,
if a novice plays it,
he or she will advance
through three or four levels
and will be happy
about the points score.
But as you get more
experience, you see that
you have to gather lots of
points already on the first level,
second level, where you can
easily get lots of points.
And then, when it gets tougher,
you use these points up.
And then you can play
five, six, eight, ten levels
depending on your experience.
So you grow with the game.
But the real addiction is that,
"Oh, I just want to
play it one more time.
Because I know
I can do better!"
"I just needed two
more bonus points
and I could have got
to the next level."
Are you increasingly designing
games with computers in mind?
Yes it is.
I am fascinated by the
opportunities we have
these days, with very
powerful, and...
actually, mass market
media, electronically,
which can reach
a lot of people.
And of course, which
have their own challenges
in designing the
right games for it.
So yes, I am concentrating,
more actually,
on electronic designs.
And at the moment,
with the evolution of the iPhone,
I am very, very excited about the
possibilities on the iPhone.
Can you tell us about the play modes?
The Puzzle mode is
essentially restricted by
only having all
the colors once.
Once you have used them
in a segment, in a sector,
then they are not
replenished.
You turn the different
wheels and you
use the colors once and
then they disappear.
And just have to make the best
use of all these available colors.
Which is the seven
wheels times six.
So this is something, kind
of a minimalistic approach.
And I like it because you always
have to use all your resources.
This is, however, something
that you can take
plenty of time over it.
And just think out
the best moves.
Our second mode which
is the Action mode.
Here you have exactly
one minute to
play a level of the game.
And I find that very
challenging because
it is really about speed.
The colors in the segments
are no longer restricted.
That means when you,
essentially, empty a wheel
by using all six of its colors,
it is actually replenished by
another set of random colors.
So you want to be fast.
And you want to make your
points to get to many levels.
And then there's
a third mode,
which is our Arcade mode.
Which is a completely different
approach again, to the game.
Because here the restriction
is the number of rotations
you can do with
the wheels.
And each level
adds a new color.
So you start very easily
with only three, four colors.
And then you go to
five colors, six colors.
And of course, the
more colors you have
the more difficult it is
to make the matches ,
that biangles and triangles,
how we call them.
Here it is essentially to
build for the future.
So it's not just
looking at one level.
You have to make many
points as long as it's easy.
And then you
use these points
you have collected
earlier in later levels,
when it gets hard.
Do you think Roto will appeal
to your traditional audience?
I think yes.
Roto is a very simple game.
Very short rules.
But it has a lot of the attractive
elements of a board game.
You take it turn by turn.
And you try to optimize
your resources.
You try to deal with the restrictions
as if you had a board game.
But, of course, everything is
done electronically for you
so you can completely concentrate
on your strategy.
So I think it will appeal,
on the one side,
to the board gamers
who know me.
And on the other
side, of course,
we have a fantastic and
typical iPhone game here,
so it should actually
be very well received
by the iPhone, the
electronic people as well.
So I have great expectations
for the game.
Thank you for your time
Dr Knizia.
Well, thank you very much!